=head1 Chapter 05 - Context: here we come

=head2 Let's put this in context

The B<Chromaprint> library uses a context struct. It's a structure which
is very similar to an object in the sense that it stores contextual
information the way objects store attributes.

In order to use B<Chromaprint> functions, we need to create a context and
then call functions with that context. This is very similar to the Perl
interface we would like to have, except we can use methods, so the object
is already available.

If the library was Perl, it would like this:

    my $context   = Chromaprint->new(...);
    my $algorithm = Chromaprint::algorithm($context);

This is definitely not Perlish. We can make it fully object oriented by
associating the Perl hash we create with the context object. We could
then provide the following Perlish syntax:

    my $chromaprint_object = Chromaprint->new(...);
    my $algorithm          = $chromaprint_object->algorithm;

Because the C<< -> >> notation sends the invocant as the first parameter,
the object hash will be sent to our C<algorithm> function and we could
match that with the context we will create ourselves.

In order to do that, we need to do two things:

=over 4

=item * Create a context struct

=item * Associate it with the Perl hash

=back

=head2 Creating the struct

Creating the struct is fairly simple. Let's take a look at the C
function signature:

    CHROMAPRINT_API ChromaprintContext *chromaprint_new(int algorithm);

The first part, C<CHROMAPRINT_API>, is a macro. The interesting part comes
after.

In order to create a chromaprint struct, we start by creating a pointer
of type C<ChromaprintContext> and send the C<chromaprint_new> function
the algorithm, as an C<int>.

We can do that in XS too. First we can use the C<PREINIT> section to
define a variable before our C<CODE> gets called.

    PREEINIT:
        ChromaprintContext *chromaprint_ctx;

    CODE:
        ...

This provides us with a pointer of the right structure type. It doesn't
point to anything yet.

In order to make it point to something, we need to allocate memory to
hold what the pointer will point to, point it there, and generate the
structure.

C is a bare-bones language and, although it has memory management
functions, they are fairly simple. Big projects tend to add layers of
logic on them to provide smarter allocation that fits better with the
project's vision. Perl has its own version as well, which aims to
pre-allocate space for variables that do not exist yet and reuse the
allocated memory. This is why it is said that Perl favors performance to
memory.

C<Newx> can be used in order to allocate memory in Perl. You
can also use C<malloc>, but C<Newx> is safer and smarter, and we should
always remember the first chapter of optimization club.

C<New> also exists, but it has been supersedes by the smarter C<Newx>.

The function signature is:

    void Newx(void* ptr, int nitems, type)

This means we need to send a pointer, the number of items we would like
to allocate memory for, and the type of value it will point to.

    Newx( chromaprint_ctx, 1, ChromaprintContext );

What this does is claim enough memory to contain at least one single
C<ChromaprintContext> type of value and points C<chromaprint_ctx> to the
allocated memory. (That memory segment still does not have a struct in it.)

That's great. The last item is to simply create the struct in the
location our pointer points at:

    chromaprint_ctx = chromaprint_new(algo);

You might notice two problems here. The first one would be, "Where is
C<algo> from?" and the second, "What happens to the variable when we
finish the C<new> method?"

=head2 Algorithm

Originally in our code, we had the algorithm option sent. We kept it in
the hash the way it was sent, and we put C<test2> as the default value,
but now we need to get smarter.

Because the algorithm variable is an C<int> and we want to allow strings
being sent, we will need to translate the string to the appropriate
integer.

First we create a default algorithm, and we will use a constant from
the library to accomplish that:

    int i, algo = CHROMAPRINT_ALGORITHM_DEFAULT;

Now we loop over the items, just like we did before:

    for ( i = 1; i < items; i += 2 ) {
        SV *key   = ST(i);
        SV *value = newSVsv( ST( i + 1 ) );

And now we start checking if we received an algorithm, and if so, we
overwrite the algorithm variable. If it's not an algorithm, we store it.

        // we only store unless it's the algorithm
        // then we simply override the value and store it later
        if ( strcmp( SvPV_nolen( ST(i) ), "algorithm" ) == 0 ) {
            const char *algo_v = SvPV_nolen(value);
            // check algorithm options
            if (!strcmp( algo_v, "test1")) {
                algo = CHROMAPRINT_ALGORITHM_TEST1;
            } else if (!strcmp(algo_v, "test2")) {
                algo = CHROMAPRINT_ALGORITHM_TEST2;
            } else if (!strcmp(algo_v, "test3")) {
                algo = CHROMAPRINT_ALGORITHM_TEST3;
            } else if (!strcmp(algo_v, "test4")) {
                algo = CHROMAPRINT_ALGORITHM_TEST4;
            } else {
                fprintf(stderr, "WARNING: unknown algorithm, using the default\n");
            }

            algo = SvIV( ST( i + 1 ) );
        } else {
            hv_store_ent( hash, key, value, 0 );
        }


Why do we only overwrite the C<algo> variable instead of simply storing
it? Imagine the following code:

    my $chromaprint = Audio::Chromaprint->new();

If we check the algorithm only within the loop of keys, we won't spot that
one was not provided.

Another approach is to store everything, no matter what, then check the
value from the hash and change it if missing.

We can also first create the hash with the default algorithm and then
override if it's available in the options. That will force two writings
to the hash instead of a single one.

Since the algorithm is an integer and not a string, we correct the
following statement:

       hv_store(
           hash,
           "algorithm",
           strlen("algorithm"),
           newSViv(algo),
           0
       );

Excellent!

=head2 Knowing the context

Now that we have the context, even when the function is done, it will
still be in memory, but we won't have the pointer anymore. They pointer
will go away but the context struct will live on. We need a way to be
able to find it back.

Since pointers are basically addresses, we can print out the address
number.

    printf("Context pointer address: %p\n", chromaprint_ctx);

In the output we will get:

    Context pointer address: 0x1a7c040

This is hexadecimal but we can get the integer value of it, and we can
save value in the hash we return to the user. Then when another method is
called, it can fetch the pointer address from the hash value and call
additional Chromaprint functions with it.

    hv_store(
        hash,
        "_cp_str",
        strlen("_cp_str"),
        newSViv( PTR2IV(chromaprint_ctx) ),
        0
    );

Let's try to print out the object we get from the XS C<new> method:

    use DDP;
    my $cp = Audio::Chromaprint->new();
    p $cp;

The output:

    Audio::Chromaprint  {
        public methods (4) : algorithm, bootstrap, new, version
        private methods (0)
        internals: {
            algorithm   "test1",
            _cp_ptr     27770944
        }
    }

=head2 Filling in the testing gap

We've added a few new things and they should be tested. The next chapter
will cover testing what we have done in this chapter.
