=head1 Chapter 08 - Mapping types

XSUBs (XS functions) receive and return Perl's C data types (B<SV>, B<IV>,
B<AV>, B<HV>, and so forth). If we want to return an B<int>, we will need
to create an B<IV> with the value and return it. If we want to receive an
B<int> we will need to translate an B<int> back to an B<SV>.

Perl's XS layer provides a comfortable way to indicate how to translate
these types (and any others you want) and have Perl's XS preprocessor
add the translation code for you. B<TYPEMAP>s are the mechanism XS uses
to automatically translate between different data types.

You can create your own or use the default ones that Perl provides out
of the box. In fact, we're using those already in our code.

You can read about typemaps in
L<perlxstypemap|http://perldoc.perl.org/perlxstypemap.html>.

We will use a typemap to convert our context structure to a Perl variable
and back.

=head2 Basic structs

Once we have a struct, Perl has a basic typemap for translating a struct
into a reference. This will allow us to automatically receive a reference
from C<new> when C<new>'s XS code simply returns a pointer to our new
struct.

There is one big caveat, as we will see.

=head2 The typemap file

First, we create a F<typemap> file. Perl has a default type called
B<T_PTROBJ>. The documentation is as follows:

    The pointer is blessed into a class that is derived from the name
    of type of the pointer but with all '*' in the name replaced with
    'Ptr'.

This means that we need to provide B<T_PTROBJ> with a package name. If we
had any asterisks in the typemap definition, it would replace the asterisks
with the string C<Ptr>. Hence if we had the line:

    SomeClass *     T_PTROBJ

it will bless the pointer to the package C<SomeClassPtr>.

Now we need to adjust the XS layer. The tests will be the really awkward
part.

=head2 Adjust the XS part

In order to return the context struct, we need to delete the code that
creates the hash reference we have (you might begin to see the caveat),
so we delete the following chunks of code:

    // store the pointer to the chromaprint object in the hash
    // user plays with it, it breaks
    hv_store(
        hash,
        "_cp_ptr",
        strlen("_cp_ptr"),
        newSViv( PTR2IV(ctx) ),
        FALSE
    );

    SV* const self = newRV_noinc( (SV *)hash );

    RETVAL = sv_bless( self, gv_stashpv( class, 0 ) );

Instead, we change the C<RETVAL> to just return the context:

    RETVAL = ctx;

We also need to make sure we return an C<Audio::Chromaprint> variable.
We change the beginning of the XS function to:

    Audio::Chromaprint
    new( const char *class, ... )

Perl will do something quite interesting here. Let's print out what we
get back using L<Devel::Peek|https://metacpan.org/pod/Devel::Peek>:

    SV = IV(0xd0f640) at 0xd0f650
      REFCNT = 1
      FLAGS = (PADMY,ROK)
      RV = 0xc3b0f8
      SV = PVMG(0xde75d0) at 0xc3b0f8
        REFCNT = 1
        FLAGS = (OBJECT,IOK,pIOK)
        IV = 14770176
        NV = 0
        PV = 0
        STASH = 0xe3b368    "Audio::Chromaprint"

I<(This might look a bit different, depending upon your version of the Perl
interpreter.)>

We have an B<IV> which is an B<RV>, which references a B<PVMG>, which has
an B<IV> slot with a value, and a B<STASH> defined with the package.

Translating this to Perl, we end up with a scalar reference, blessed into
the B<Audio::Chromaprint> package. The scalar value is the pointer address
for our C-level C<ctx> struct pointer.

Now we see the full caveat: We don't have a hash reference back, we only
have a scalar reference back. Moreover, we have the pointer address as a
value of the scalar, which means someone can change it if they want.

=head2 Testing

If we try our memory leak test right now, it will not work as expected.
The typemap blesses into the package C<Audio::Chromaprint>, while our
test has an object based on it instead. This means that our C<DESTROY>
method will not be called - only the C<DESTROY> of C<Audio::Chromaprint>.

A way to fix it is to override the original method in the right package,
and use that to increment the counter, to know that it was called.

The following should be our test:

    my $called = 0;
    {
        no warnings qw<redefine once>;
        *Audio::Chromaprint::DESTROY = sub ($) {
            $called++;
            my $self = shift;
        };
    }

    {
        my $cp = Audio::Chromaprint->new;
    }

You will notice we have a prototype on the C<DESTROY> method - that is
because the XS version has a prototype too.
